--- 
title: Curation
category: article
link: 
date: 26/07/2011
timestamp: 2011-07-26 15:14:35.291053 -06:00

The internet is a wonderful thing. On any given day there are millions of people creating beautiful and interesting content and sharing it online. Sadly, there is also a lot of junk. I have started a new [project](http://tthor.com "TThor Newsletter") in which I am responsible for curating a __*ton*__ of content. It isn't always easy to decide what content to include and what to keep out. Curating content is generally a 3-step [process](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curation "Curation - Wikipedia"):

*Selection*

This is perhaps the most time consuming step. When creating an archive of content, such as a newsletter, you must take a lot of care into what type of content to include. This is made a bit easier by restricting the type of content to certain categories. In my case, I have defined certain categories of content but I don't want to be restricted in what I can or can't include. This has made the selection process difficult. Without defined restrictions I have found myself swimming in the number of links I want to include but struggling with the specific links I should include.

*Caretaking*

Internet caretaking is, in my opinion, a much easier process than the caretaking of traditional media. You don't have to worry about losing a physical book or a paper essay being destroyed in the rain. The worst case scenario is linking to an article that has been taken down (or in [John Gruber's](http://daringfireball.net "Daring Fireball") case [fireballed](http://fireballed.org "Fireballed.org")).

*Presentation*

The internet shines in this regard. There are nearly endless ways to present your archive. People have used blogs, forums, videos, podcasts, social networks, message boards, emails etc.. to present their content. I have chosen an email newsletter for my presentation. I feel a newsletter is something more personal than a traditional blog, and much more simple than a forum or message board. I think there is something intimate and special about receiving content sent directly to you and curated specifically for you. In some ways it is like the Internet's form of a handwritten note.

So far, my foray in the process of curation has been a fun one. There are many things to learn and many ways I can improve, but it is satisfying to see something you've spent a lot of time creating consumed by people who appreciate what you've done.